# 1. Data Protection and Compliance:

ICRC provides TeleConnect with systems in place for data privacy, access and protection of patient information and patient confidentiality. ICRC is responsible for data within the TeleConnect website, but if data is downloaded by a user from the Tool, that data is no longer under the remit of the ICRC data protection policies and processes.\
TeleConnect patient data is stored for only 24 hours, however, PDFs of the information from the chat function may be downloaded, in which case, it is the user’s responsibility according to organizational policy on information management which then becomes applicable to that patient data.\
User account data is stored while users are active and unused user accounts are deleted every 6 months.\
Analytic data can be accessed only (number of consultations, length etc) by users with an admin account.\
Determine if personal devices, such as health workers’ own phones, will be used as part of the delivery of telemedicine services. If so, contact the business owner in HQ to discuss policies for data protection or limitations on what can be recorded or stored on a personal device.

TeleConnect comes with a standard Terms of use and privacy notice that all users should read and confirm they have read before they use the tool. It is recommended that a local legal team should review this in case any local legal or data protection considerations need to be added. If so, contact the TeleConnect focal point at ICRC HQ to get these added to the website. The terms of use and privacy notice for ICRC TeleConnect will have to be adapted if a MoH is taking over the implementation of TeleConnect.

***

* Measurable, i.e. include quantitative and/or qualitative elements that can be measured;
* Achievable, i.e. realistically attainable, including in the time frame envisaged;
* Relevant to identified needs and risks;
* Time-bound, i.e. establish by when the objective is to be achieved or a clear before and after.
